
This how pod is created and communication happens in master and work nodes

1. Kubectl apply -f deployment.yml  
Kubectl send the information to the kude api-server whichs saves the new deployment spec in etcd 
2. Save new state --- etcd 
3. Checks for changes ---- controller-manager --- api-server 
4. Watch for unassigned pods ---- sheculder--- api-server 

5. Notify about pod with nodename---- api-server 

6. Assign pode to node ---- sheculder ---- api-server 

7. Save neww state ---api-server--- etcd
8. Look for newly assigned pod ----kubelet
9. Bind the pod to node ---- api-server --- kublet
10. Start container ----kubelet--- container-runtine 
11. Update pod status---kubelet ---api-server
12. Save the state ---etcd 


Top level or root level properties to write the yaml file 

apiversion: version of kubernetes v1
kind: type of object to create
metadata: about the object like name,lables, etc
Spec:  is a dictionary add property under it called containers.

Kind             version 
POD.                 V1
Service.            V1
Replicaset.       apps/v1
Deployment.     apps/v1

Kubectl create -f example.yaml
Kubectl get pods 
Kubectl get pods -o wide 
Kubectl describe pod example 
Kubectl  delete pod example

To create a yaml file using command 
Kubectl run redis --image=redis123 --dry-run=client -o yaml > redis.yaml 

Loda balancing & scaling 

Thera are two similar types replication controller and replica set both are same but not same because replication controller is older and replica set is new recommended way

To create a replicationcontroller write yaml file 
apiversion: v1
Kind: Replicationcontroller 
metadata: 
     name: myapp-c 
     lables:
         app: myapp
          type: front-end 
spec: 
     template: 
          metadata: 
             Same as above 
          Spec: 
               Container: 
                - name:  nginx-container
                   Image: nginx
 replicas:  3 

To create replica set 

Kubectl create -f filename
Kubectl get replicationcontroller

Replicaset.yaml 

apiversion: apps/v1
kind: ReplicaSet
metadata: 
     Same as above 
spec:
    Same as above 
     selector:
         matchlables:
               type: front-end 

The difference between replicationcontroller and replica set is selector with the help of selector we can easy manage the replicas before created pods with matchlables 

Kubectl create -f filename 
Kubectl get replicaset

Labels and selectors 

The role of the replica set to monitor the pod and if any of them were to fail, deploy new onces

How the replica set know which pod to monitor there the lables comes as filter for replica set 
This way the replica set knows which set to monitor 

To update the count of replicas just remove the number and update with new number 
Later
kubectl replace -f filename 

Another way to up date 

Kubectl scale --replicas=6 -f filename
Kubectl delete replicaset name

Deployment 
That comes under higher in the hierarchy 
The deployment provideds us the capability to upgrade the underlying instances seamlessly using rolling updates, undo changes, and pause and resume changes as required.

Deployment.yaml

apiversion: apps/v1
Kind: Deployments
metadata:  same as replicas set 

Kubectl create - f deployment.yaml
Kubectl get deployments 

Advantages of deployment 
You can see all 
Kubectl get all 

Environment variables 

To set an environment variable use the env property in spec container env 
Env is an array so every item under the env property starts with a dash each item has name and property.
env: 
     - name: app_colour
        Vale: pink 
         Valuefrom: 
                 ConfigMapKeyRef:
         Valuefrom: 
                 SecretKeyRef: 

Env has value types like 
 1. Plain key value 
 2. Configmap
 3. Secrets

Configmap

 Configmap are used to pass configuration data
In the form of key value data 
When  a pod is created inject the configmap into the pod 
 To create the configmap we have two ways 
Imperative and declarative 

Kubectl create configMap 
             <Confing name > --from-literal =<key>=<value>

Kubectl get configmapd
Kubectl describe configmaps 
To use the configMap

Envfrom: 
      - configMapRef:
                   name: app-config 

Secrets

Secrets are used to store sensitive information like passwords or Keys 
They are similar to configMap except that they're stored in an encoded format 
Create scrects and inject the pod 
There are two ways of creating a secret

Imperative kubectl create secret generic 
   <Secret-name> --from-literal=<key>=<value>
Declarative kubectl create -f 

Secrets.yaml 
Apiversion v1
Kind secret
Metadata 
      Name app-secrect
Data 
     Db_host MySQL
     Db_user root
     Db_password. Paswrd

We can write data public or text format need to encrypt 

To encrypt use 
echo -n 'mysql' | base64
bXlzcWw= 

To decode encrypted data 
echo -n 'bXlzcWw='  | base64 --decode
MySQL 

Inject into pod 
envFrom
     - secretRef: 
               name : app-secret

Kubectl create -f filename 
Kubectl get secrets
Kubectl describe secrets 

Securitycontext 

A security context defines privilege and access control settings for a pod or container 
Security context settings include, but are not limited to
Discretionary Access control:  permission to access an object, like a file, is based on user(UID)
and group ID (GID)

Used in yaml file like 

securityContext 
      runAsUser : 1000
      runAsGroup: 3000

We can use capabilities to add like 
 securityContext 
      Capabilities: 
        Add : ["sys_admin",]

Service account 

The concept of service account is linked to other security-related concepts in kubernetes 
Such as authentication, Authorization, role-based access control, etc 

There are two types of service account 
1. User account is used by humans 
2. Service accounts are used by machines.

User account should be accessing the cluster to perform administrative tasks, or a developer accessing the cluster to deploy applications etc. 

A service account could be an account used by application to interact with the kubernetes cluster .
Example: monitoring application like Prometheus 
Uses a service account to pull the kubernetes api
For performance Matrix.
An automated build tool like Jenkins uses service account to deploy applications on kubernetes cluster.

Kubectl create serviceaccount dashboard-sa
Kubectl get serviceaccount 
Kubectl describe serviceaccount dashboard-sa 

Creates the screct token to view the screct token
Kubectl describe secret dashboard-sa-token-kbbdm
This is processe of creating new service account and use it 


DGR uploads Common errors 

1: What causes the error crashloopbackoff in a kubernetes pod and how do you troubleshoot it?

Pod is starting crashing and kubernetes is restarting it repeatedly 
Check the logs kubectl. Logs 
Describe the pod
Incorrect environment variables 
Failed dependencies
Mis configurations in container's command or arguments

2: why might a kubernetes pod be stuck in the pending State and how do you reslove it?

Waiting for resources tobe allocated.
Lack of enough cpu and memory check the resources using kubectl describe nodes.
Node affinity or taints prevent scheduling.
Check nodes taints and pods affinity rules.
Missing persistentvolmes.

3: what is the error imagepullbackoff indicate, and how do you fix it?

Unable to pull specified container image.
Verify image name.
Verify tag and register URL.
Image registery is accessible.
Credentials are configured correctly.
Network connection to image registery.

4: How do you reslove the Errimagepull error in kubernetes?

Similar to imagepullbackoff.
Specific to immediately failure in pulling image.
Image name and tag are correct.
Credentials are correctly referenced.
Registery url is correct.
Image is Available and no access restrictions.
Registery url is correct.

5: what might cause a pod to remain in the Terminating state indefinitely and how do you reslove it?

Cannot gracefully shutdown the containers.
Long terminationgarce period seconds
You can force delete the pod 
Kubectl delete pod podname --grace-period=0 --force 
Finalizers that are preventing deletion
Kubectl edit pod padname and deleting the finalizers section.
Pod is accessible and no network issues.
